we begin with the latest developments in
the conflict in the Middle East Israel's
military says its forces have entered
gaza's biggest Hospital alifa the site
of a long standoff the Israel Defense
Forces say specially trained troops are
carrying out a precise targeted
operation against Hamas in a specific
area of the hospital both sides say
Israel gave it a warning that it would
raid the hospital Israeli officials also
said they are taking steps to avoid
civilian
casualties earlier we spoke with Peter
Lana of the Israel Defense Forces he
told us more about the
operation it is an operation that we are
carrying out uh based on intelligence
information it is a precise targeted
operation in a specific uh part of the
shifa complex and indeed we are uh
conducting this operation as part of our
broader efforts in order to destroy
dismantle Hamas and its terrorist
infrastructure and uh also uh retrieve
and bring home the hostages uh so we're
conducting this operation over the
overnight in order to achieve those
goals um uh indeed it is a huge
challenge within the hospital complex we
have conducted extensive efforts over
the last few days in order to evacuate
the hospital in order to um get people
out of Harm's Way and that's despite
hamas's efforts to keep People In Harm's
Way
as we uh went into the compound the
complex we instructed people the
uninvolved to keep away from the windows
and to take cover uh indeed the
operation is ongoing we are conducting
our operations in order to distinguish
the civilian component keeping the
civilians out of Harm's Way uh uh Trying
to minimize the effect of our operation
on them but there is a military
necessity and nevertheless because of
how Hamas has utilized hospitals
yesterday we shared with with the world
how they turned uh the rantisi hospital
into a command and control position
perhaps even holding hostages there um
and this goes and this is just another
part of that operation in order to
degrade destroy and dismantle hamas's
terrorist
infrastructure now let's uh get more on
the humanitarian situation in Gaza we
can speak now with James Denzel he is
the head of conflict and humanitarian
policy at save the children UK thanks
for being with us first of all tell us
what you make of the Israeli military
operation inside the alifa hospital in
Gaza
City well I think all eyes are on shifa
hospital and to see the scenes that
we're seeing from hospitals that do have
protected statuses under international
law to see Mass graves in these
hospitals to see neonatal units shut and
newborn babies premature babies taken
out several have died and I think think
in a way the fate of those babies is a
litness test of the international order
our ability to get Aid into them an
ability to protect them and an ability
to save their lives so I think all eyes
are understandably on shifa hospital
this morning but let's not forget there
are tens of thousands of Palestinians
tens of thousands of children still in
the north of Gaza who have been uh cut
off from even the small amount of Aid
that has been managing to get into Gaza
since the 7th of October and the
horrendous of that happen then so uh
it's a really desperate time and we're
hearing about a Public Health crisis
which is adding of course to the the
high death toll and injury toll which
hasn't been updated since Friday so we
don't really know what the consequence
of this are the alifa hospital in Gaza
City is the largest Medical Hospital in
Gaza I understand uh is it possible for
medical personnel to provide care in
this situation
well the wh has said that AA hospital as
well as half of gaza's hospitals have
ceased to function as hospitals and I
think the key question which goes back
to one of your previous interviews Terry
with an IDF representative is the
question about if you can evacuate
hospitals where do you evacuate them to
uh I remember in the mosal operations
several years ago there was a lot of
field hospitals close to the front line
so that once civilians came out of Isis
controlled areas they could be treated
there but if you evacuate very injured
people from hospitals but do not take
them to other medical facilities or
other hospitals then you're essentially
uh signing a death warrant to them so uh
there's there's a huge kind of missing
question there about what happens when
you evacuate gaza's hospitals which are
under incredible strain as you can
imagine from the thousands of of of
people who have been injured and these
are serious injuries Crush injuries
blast injuries life-changing injuries
for children uh loss of Limbs loss of
organ function that will carry they will
carry for the rest of their
lives James if if you could sit down
with the Waring parties yourself at a
table what would you say to them
directly well I would try and explain to
them that the heaviest burden of this
conflict is on the smallest shoulders of
the one million children in Gaza let
alone uh the children that have been
taken into Gaza and are being held
hostage uh children are paying the
ultimate price for this conflict and all
I could try and hope for is that adults
see in the despair of children the need
to deescalate and find a way towards an
effective a humanitarian ceasefire that
allows us as Aid workers to do our job
to reach children with clean water with
food with medical help uh with all the
protection services they so desperately
need because that isn't happening at the
moment and of course the toll is
absolutely
devastating we know that children are
the most vulnerable me members of
society and and in Wars they are
extremely vulnerable but in this
particular conflict children seem to be
disproportionately affected how do you
account for
that well unlike other high-intensity
Urban battles that we've seen over the
last decade uh the key element to the
protection of of children has been the
evacuation of children the movement of
children away from the front lines of a
conflict whether that's in bmud or in
Aleppo or in in most
uh that has not been possible in Gaza
because the population is is trapped gen
more or less I mean there's been a few
people come out dual Nationals a few
injured but very small numbers so the
majority of the population a very large
child population of over a million uh
Gaz and children has not been able to
leave uh an area that has been
completely unsafe there's no safe place
in Gaza there's no deconflict space and
of course when you see the largest
hospital uh being raided as it is that
is Testament to that so I think that
explains the uh the high high numbers of
children who have been uh caught up in
this and that again should be a a real
claring call to action uh from the
International
Community James thank you very much for
taking time to talk with us today that
was James denel at save the children
UK Let's cross over now to Jerusalem
correspondent Samy suckle is standing by
there Sammy what's the latest on the
situation at that hospital in
Gaza well we know that the forces
entered the uh the Gaza shifa complex
now it's it's quite a large complex this
is the the largest hospital in Gaza City
and in the Gaza Strip and the operation
is taking part in certain areas of this
hospital and from what we know there's
been no exchange of fire that means uh
there has been no resistance to the
entrance of the Israeli soldiers Hamas
is saying this is just a proof that
there are no Fighters over there uh yet
we also heard that there have been some
explosions in the complex H the report
is that in the western part of the
hospital the forces have tried to blow
up some doors so maybe they're trying to
reach a certain area where they do
believe that there might be a Hamas
Fighters or even what Israel has said
that maybe some of the hostages are held
there but I think it's we'll have to see
uh whether these claims of an existing
of a command center of Hamas they will
actually find it or
not we know that the hospital had not
been fully evacuated some people had
apparently sought Refuge there there
were still patients there what are you
hearing about the number of civilians
that are still in the
hospital we don't know exactly the the
numbers for sure we don't have the same
we had tens of thousands that were both
inside the complex and surrounding the
complex apparently those numbers have
definitely gone down but I don't have
exact figures I mean the only number I
can quote is the 630 patients that are
being treated inside the the shifa
hospital US President Joe Biden has
urged Israel to protect civilians at
alifa hospital and use quote less
intrusive tactics is is that likely to
have any influence on military
operations
Sami well in in Israel they're saying
that they're going to continue with this
military campaign we're talking about a
long military campaign in the Gaza Strip
a campaign that will last for many more
months this campaign is now in the city
of Gaza and uh the next stage will be
when the Israeli forces will be going
down south and uh we're expected to have
a very long campaign and they already
saying now and we're hearing Israeli
ministers say that we know that the
international criticism will grow the
Israeli foreign minister said to
journalist that he expects there to be
International pressure on Israel in two
or three weeks and nevertheless the he's
also said uh because he was criticized
by by others in the government for even
talking about International pressure
that Israel is going to continue this
military campaign in spite of the
internation naal pressure and in spite
of criticism that will come from the
United States having said that the
Americans did agree with Israel that
inside the aifa hospital there is a
Hamas military presence this is of
course something that Hamas also reacted
to they came out with a statement saying
that this is not true that the Americans
are actually backing Israel with this
attack against shifa and they're
inviting the United Nations to
investigate and find out whether there
are Hamas military presence in the
hospital Sami thank you very much for
that update that was correspondent Sami
Sak in
Jerusalem